Now let's talk about my 5 and 50 rules.
Okay first off, all work gets tracked, no exceptions.
We're tracking every element of work, every hour, down to the 15 minute level.
Every unit of work has a task number, a name,
and an estimate associated with it, plus the aggregation of the actuals.
Now what is my 5% rule?
When assigned a task the developer uses the first 5% of the estimate
to make a quick assessment of the task at hand.
Brings up any issues to the team lead, or if there is no problem,
just continues work.
Now it might be a little less than 5%, but look at the task,
look at what needs to be done, look at the requirements.
Do I think I can get it done within the estimated time?
Etc.
Every single task that you assign gets received by that developer and they
look at the 5% of the effort and give you that feedback.
First off, to make sure are we heading in the right direction?
Now we have the 50% rule.
When 50% of the estimated hours are used,
the developer must review the work to see if 50% of
the work itself is completed.
If not, then immediately go to the team lead for discussions.
So again,
I've used 10 hours of a 20-hour task and I think I'm about
halfway done with the actual functionality,
I am on track.
But if I've used 10 hours and I think I've barely scratched the surface,
then I have to go right to my team lead and say hey,
I'm behind.
What are our options?
So you can take corrective action.
And we do this every day.
We review project performance each day.
We look at the 50% mark and see how we're doing.
We constantly review and if necessary revise estimates, because, life happens.
Now what information should we even track?
Oh, we'll see that on the next slide.
Now let's look at the items that I track in my business.
I would suggest you probably track maybe at least these
and you may need to track even more.
Certainly I want to track at the customer level,
project level, every customer may have multiple projects.
Task number level.
I have so many tasks in this project, for this customer.
Have a quick little task description as well.
Put in my estimated hours for that task.
And then as people post hours against that task,
I'm accumulating the actual hours so I can see progress.
I want to see who put those hours in there,
whether it was Michael or Joe or Sam.
I want to see when do they post that time, date and time.
And a little bit about what they did.
So I might enter a description.
Say hey,
I want to put in three hours against this customer
project task and what did I do?
I helped design a database or I finished a screen and things like that. And we'll see a more detailed example on the next slide.